tiproxy: add tiproxy (#15634)
pingcap/docs: tiproxy/tiproxy-performance-test.md

---
title: TiProxy Performance Test Report
summary: Learn the performance of TiProxy and the comparison with HAProxy.
---

# TiProxy Performance Test Report

This report tests the performance of TiProxy in the OLTP scenario of Sysbench and compares it with [HAProxy](https://www.haproxy.org/).

The results are as follows:

> - The QPS upper limit of TiProxy is affected by the type of load. Under the basic load of Sysbench and the same CPU usage, the QPS of TiProxy is about 20% to 40% lower than that of HAProxy.
> - The number of TiDB server instances that TiProxy can hold varies according to the type of load. Under the basic load of Sysbench, a TiProxy can hold 4 to 10 TiDB server instances of the same model.
> - The performance of TiProxy is more affected by the number of vCPUs, compared to HAProxy. When the returned data is 10,000 rows and the CPU usage is the same, the QPS of TiProxy is about 30% lower than that of HAProxy.
> - The performance of TiProxy increases almost linearly with the number of vCPUs. Therefore, increasing the number of vCPUs can effectively improve the QPS upper limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The QPS upper limit of TiProxy is affected by the type of workload. Under the basic workloads of Sysbench and the same CPU usage, the QPS of TiProxy is about 20% to 40% lower than that of HAProxy.
- The number of TiDB server instances that TiProxy can hold varies according to the type of workload. Under the basic workloads of Sysbench, a TiProxy can hold 4 to 10 TiDB server instances of the same model.
- The performance of TiProxy is more affected by the number of vCPUs, compared to HAProxy. When the returned data is 10,000 rows and the CPU usage is the same, the QPS of TiProxy is about 30% lower than that of HAProxy.
- The performance of TiProxy increases almost linearly with the number of vCPUs. Therefore, increasing the number of vCPUs can effectively improve the QPS upper limit.
```

    daemon                                  # Run HAProxy as a daemon in the background, which is equivalent to the command line parameter "-D". You can also disable it with the "-db" parameter on the command line.
    stats socket /var/lib/haproxy/stats     # The location where the statistics are saved.

defaults                                    # Default configuration.
    log global                              # Inherit the settings of the global configuration section.
    retries 2                               # The maximum number of times to try to connect to the upstream server. If the number of retries exceeds this value, the backend server is considered unavailable.
    timeout connect  2s                     # The timeout period for HAProxy to connect to the backend server. If the server is located on the same LAN as HAProxy, set it to a shorter time.
    timeout client 30000s                   # The timeout period for the client to be inactive after the data transmission is completed.
    timeout server 30000s                   # The timeout period for the server to be inactive.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

listen tidb-cluster                         # Configure database load balancing.
    bind 0.0.0.0:3390                       # Floating IP address and listening port.
    mode tcp                                # HAProxy uses layer 4, the transport layer.
    balance leastconn                      # The server with the least number of connections receives the connection first. `leastconn` is recommended for long session services, such as LDAP, SQL, and TSE, rather than short session protocols, such as HTTP. This algorithm is dynamic, and the server weight is adjusted during operation for slow-start servers.
    server tidb-1 10.9.18.229:4000 check inter 2000 rise 2 fall 3      # Detects port 4000 at a frequency of once every 2000 milliseconds. If it is detected as successful twice, the server is considered available; if it is detected as failed three times, the server is considered unavailable.
    server tidb-2 10.9.39.208:4000 check inter 2000 rise 2 fall 3
    server tidb-3 10.9.64.166:4000 check inter 2000 rise 2 fall 3
```

> ## Basic load test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basic workload test
```

### Test plan

> This test aims to compare the QPS of TiProxy and HAProxy under four types of loads: point select, read only, write only, and read write. Each type of load is tested with different concurrency to compare the QPS of TiProxy and HAProxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test aims to compare the QPS of TiProxy and HAProxy under four types of workloads: point select, read only, write only, and read write. Each type of workload is tested with different concurrency to compare the QPS of TiProxy and HAProxy.
```
